---
layout: post
title:  "Objectives"
date:   2020-01-19 10:00:00
isStaticPost: true
---

Failures are an essential part of every innovation and development process. The road that leads to most successful human undertakings is usually paved by a large amount of mistakes, failed experiments and incorrect assumptions. This reality is even more remarkable in scientific research, since making new discoveries can sometimes be seen as a *leap in the dark*, where the methods to be used and even the outcomes to achieve typically cannot be known a priori, which makes trial-and-error approaches a constituent part of the scientific method.
Despite their importance, **failures are often overlooked** in the research process. This might be due to the research community’s unwillingness to admit and discuss failure, as well as problems that arise from the refusal of publishing negative results. This produces an environment where very little time is devoted to reasoning and reporting unsuccessful trials. 
The complexity of robotic systems presents a number of **challenges** in identifying failure cases and addressing their causes. First because the number of very different components present in a robotic system translates into a multitude of possible failures (e.g. the vision might fail because of lighting, the IMU because of magnetic interference, etc.). **Troubleshooting** these complex systems becomes a difficult and time-consuming task. Besides, there are usually a multitude of single points of failure, which are the components of a system where a failure will stop the entire system from working. Another distinguishing feature of robotics research is that a researcher may feel tempted to tailor his/her experiments to avoid particular failure cases without mentioning it, in an attempt to bypass further scrutiny when submitting an article for review.

This workshop aims to serve as a discussion forum where the participants will have the opportunity to:
* **Learn** from the experience of other participants, finding explanations for problems that they might encounter in their work, as well as possible solutions. They may also avoid repeating the same mistakes, when an approach has been proven to be ineffective.
* **Share** their own unsuccessful ideas, hypotheses, and experiments, hopefully gaining some insights and possible solutions from participants working on similar problems.
* **Network** with other participants, joining efforts to address common problems or employing one’s know-how to solve another’s persistent failure case.
* **Create** new research problems, based on the discussions during the workshop, finding the underlying causes and solution for common failure cases.

By narrowing down the topics of the workshop to failures in the context of robot grasping and manipulation, we hope to increase the **focus** of the audience and increase the chance that particular problems will be shared by a number of workshop participants. We intend to have a truly interactive workshop, using different channels to **engage** the audience, such as twitter, real-time feedback and questions, and break-out sessions. Participants will be encouraged to participate by sharing their own stories of failure, and presenting suggestions to others when they feel they might have had contact with similar situations. We will also try to take input from both the speakers and the audience during the workshop, in order to develop a **taxonomy** that can classify the different types of failures in robot grasping and manipulation.

From academics with vast experience in grasping and manipulation, to robotic start-up engineers that deal with failure on an everyday basis, to researchers working in environments where failure might have catastrophic consequences, each speaker will provide the audience with their perspective on the topic and how failures are addressed in their field. Each talk will be followed by a **round table** discussion on how to identify, prevent, and resolve failure situations.
